
                    NCAR Community Climate Model (CCM3)

                                ---------

               ------------ ----- --- ---------- ------
  ********** | DISTRIBUTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS NOTICE | ************
               ------------ ----- --- ---------- ------

(c) Copyright 1996 University Corporation for Atmospheric Research/
National Center for Atmospheric Research/ 
Climate and Global Dynamics Division

This software, the Community Climate Model (CCM), version CCM3, was developed
by the Climate and Global Dynamics Division (CGD) Climate Modeling Section
(CMS) of the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), which is
operated by the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR) and
sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF).

Access and use of this software shall impose the following obligations and
understandings on the user.  The user is granted the right, without any fee
or cost, to use, copy, modify, alter, enhance and distribute this software,
and any derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation for any
purpose whatsoever, except commercial sales, provided that this entire notice
appears in all copies of the software, derivative works and supporting
documentation.  Further, the user agrees to credit UCAR/NCAR/CGD in any
publications that result from the use of this software or in any software
package that includes this software.  The names UCAR/NCAR/CGD, however, may
not be used in any advertising or publicity to endorse or promote any
products or commercial entity unless specific written permission is obtained
from UCAR/NCAR/CGD.

THE CCM3 MATERIALS ARE MADE AVAILABLE WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT
UCAR/NCAR/CGD IS NOT OBLIGATED TO PROVIDE (AND WILL NOT PROVIDE) THE USER
WITH ANY SUPPORT, CONSULTING, TRAINING, OR ASSISTANCE OF ANY KIND WITH REGARD
TO THE USE, OPERATION AND PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE, NOR TO PROVIDE THE
USER WITH ANY UPDATES, REVISIONS, NEW VERSIONS, OR "BUG FIXES."

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY UCAR/NCAR/CGD "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
EVENT SHALL UCAR/NCAR/CGD BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
CLAIMS ASSOCIATED WITH THE LOSS OF DATA OR PROFITS, WHICH MAY RESULT FROM AN
ACTION IN CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS CLAIM THAT ARISES OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACCESS, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

                         ---------------
        
INTRODUCTION TO CCM3
------------ -- ----

The NCAR Community Climate Model (CCM3) is a stable, efficient, documented,
state of the art, atmospheric general circulation model designed for climate
research on high-speed supercomputers and select upper-end workstations.

CCM3 is a free resource for scientists and graduate students in a wide array 
of specialties to use for conducting global modeling experiments in their
particular area of expertise without spending decades of their careers
developing a global climate model.

Over the last 10 years, CCM0, CCM1 and CCM2 have been used by a wide variety of
scientific institutions around the world for basic research into such areas
as nuclear winter, climate predictability, atmospheric chemistry,
paleoclimate, biosphere-atmosphere transfer, CO2 warming, climate prediction
and climate change.
